In this video,
I'll show you how to compose
an application with multiple activities.
We'll be using the example from
the Block08 application.
In this application
the first screen displays a rating bar.
You can select your number
of stars in it, and
then when you click on the button,
you're directed to a second activity.
And you see here that the information
about the number of stars which were
selected has been passed
to the second activity.
And when you click the back button, you
don't return to the previous activity but
instead to the main screen of the phone.
Start a new Android studio project.
Call the application Block08.
Click Next.
Keep the API level 16, click Next.
Peek an empty activity, next.
And here change the name for
the activity that's created: FirstActivity
and click finish.
First I create the graphical user
interface for the first activity.
I don't need this TextView here and
instead I want a RatingBar. I double
click to edit the properties.
I want 3 stars in it and
I want the rating to be an integer
number like one, two, three.
So, the stepSize is 1, okay.
I also need a button which
reads "click here to enter".
Now let's define the onClick property
for this button to be the 'enter' method.
Now, let's go back to FirstActivity.java
to define this method.
All right, so
public void, method name is 'enter' and
then it takes a View as a parameter.
Before we create a second activity,
we'll just display a pop
up message which indicates how
much stars the user selected.
So first I need to retrieve
a reference to the rating bar.
So let's create our RatingBar
object called ratingBar.
As usual I use a findViewById
method to retrieve the reference for
the view that we've
defined in the XML file
R.id.ratingBar.
Okay let's now create
an object to hold the rate.
The float 'rating'.
I can retrieve the
current value selected in
the rating bar using ratingBar.getRating.
And let's create a toast
to display this value.
Tost.makeText,
get the application context,
and then the message will be,
'rating' and "stars".
And I want to display that for
a short amount of time.
...
Okay, and let's show this toast.
All right, let's try that on the emulator.
If I don't select any star and I click on
the button I've got the toast: "0 stars".
And then if I select,
let's say, two of them,
and I click on the button,
the pop-up reads "2 stars".
Okay, but what we want now
is not a pop-up message but rather we
want a second activity to open and
we want to display a message with
the number of stars in it in
the other activity.
Let's go back to the code.
First we need to create a second activity.
In order to do that,
right click on the app here,
select New, Activity, Empty Activity.
Let's call this activity SecondActivity.
And click finish.
In the graphical user interface
of this second activity,
you will just have a large text.
"Welcome to second activity!", for now.
Okay so now we want to move from
the first activity to the second one.
So let's go back to FirstActivity.java,
and in here, in the enter method,
we'll specified, using an object which represents
an action to perform,
that we want to start the second activity.
So first, let's remove the toast message,
and create an Intent.
So intents are objects that
represent operations to be performed.
So in our case,
this intent represents our will
to start the second activity.
Let's call it 'goToSecond'.
Go, to, second.
Okay, I'll create that, it's a new Intent.
Okay, and it will be a specific intent:
["explicit intent"]
I specify the activity I
want to see started.
So in order to do that,
I use the setClass method.
goToSecond.setClass and
provide the context,
and the class I want to see started
is the SecondActivity.class.
And when this is done
the only thing I have left
to do is to use startActivity and
provide the intent as a parameter.
Okay, let's try that on the emulator.
Now when I click the button I
move to the second activity.
What we need to do now is to pass the
rating information from the first activity
to the second.
So we need to add something
here to our intent.
I'll use a putExtra method.
You see that you have a lot of them,
and it's a little like the preferences:
you provide a key and a value.
The first parameter is a key.
And you see that you can
provide different kinds of value.
And here we want to
provide the float 'rating'.
putExtra, and then my key will be
for instance 'nbStars'
and the value is 'rating'.
And that's it.
Now, in the second activity. First,
I need to retrieve this intent in order
to be able to get the value from it.
So, I'll create an intent,
let's call it 'caller'.
So that will be the caller, okay.
And from that intent I can retrieve the
value which was set up with the putExtra
using the key, so the key was 'nbStars'.
I can create a float,
let's call it 'rating' as well.
caller.getFloatExtra.
The key is 'nbStar'.
I don't remember if I put an 's'.
Yes.
'nbStars' and
we need a default value, let's see... 0.
And I want to display this
rating in the TextView.
So first I need to retrieve the TextView.
TextView
I use a findViewById method as usual.
R.id.textView
And now I can change the text
to include the rating in it.
textView.setText
"Welcome to the second activity!
Your rating... and
I concatenate the value we've retrieved.
Okay, let's try that.
Let's say I select three stars,
I click here to enter.
I arrive on the second activity and
you can see that the information
was correctly passed along.
Now, let's move back to the first
activity and select maybe only one star.
If I click on the button again,
you see that the new value was provided.
But maybe you want the application to
close completely when you hit the back
button here and you don't want to
go back to this screen anymore.
So in order to do that in the first
activity after you've started
the second one,
you just call the finish method.
All right, let's run that.
I go to the next activity, and
when I hit the back button,
I go back to the main screen and
not the first activity anymore.
In this video you've learned how to build
an application with multiple activities.
First, you need to create
a second activity, so
you can do that by right clicking
on 'app' then select 'New' and 'Activity'.
And in the first activity,
you need to create an explicit intent
to launch the second activity.
You do that by creating
an Intent object and next
you specify the activity to launch
using the setClass method.
When this is done,
you call the startActivity method,
providing the intent as a parameter.
When the second activity is started,
if the user clicks on
the back button of the phone,
you will return to the first activity.
If you don't want that, if rather you
prefer to have the first activity
suppressed from the activity stack,
then after starting the second activity,
you call the finish method.
You've also learned how to pass
information between activities.
In the first activity you add the value
that you want to pass to the second
activity using the putExtra method.
The putExtra requires
a key which will identify
the data that you want to transmit and
the value that you want to transmit.
The second activity upon starting
can retrieve the value that you've
transmitted from the first one by first
retrieving the reference to the intent,
which caused the launch
of the second activity,
and then on this intent you
can call the getFloat or
getStringExtra depending on the kind
of value that you've passed and
then you provide the key and
a default value.